---
2016/11/19, Saturday, Cloudy
---

    By Jincheng Su @ Hikvision, mail: jcsu14@fudan.edu.cn

Install cuDNN and `caffe` framework.

* Install cuDNN

    Step 1: Register an nvidia developer account and [download cudnn here](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn) (about 80 MB). You might need `nvcc --version` to get your cuda version.

    Step 2: Check where your cuda installation is. For most people, it will be `/urs/local/cuda/`.For me, it is `/usr/local/cuda-8.0/`. You can check it with `which nvcc`.

    Step 3: Copy the files:
```
    $ cd folder/extracted/contents
    $ sudo cp include/cudnn.h /usr/local/cuda-8.0/include
    $ sudo cp lib64/libcudnn* /usr/local/cuda-8.0/lib64
    $ sudo chmod a+r /usr/local/cuda/lib64/libcudnn*
```
    **Check version**

    You might have to adjust the path. See step 2 of the installation.

    `$ cat /usr/local/cuda/include/cudnn.h | grep CUDNN_MAJOR -A 2`

    **Notes**

    When you get an error like

    `F tensorflow/stream_executor/cuda/cuda_dnn.cc:427] could not set cudnn filter descriptor: CUDNN_STATUS_BAD_PARAM`

    with TensorFlow, you might consider using CuDNN v4 instead of v5.

    **Ubuntu users who installed it via apt**: [http://askubuntu.com/a/767270/10425](http://askubuntu.com/a/767270/10425)

    **If it still cannot compile with `caffe`**. Try next:
```
    $ cd folder/extracted/contents
    $ sudo cp -P include/cudnn.h /usr/include
    $ sudo cp -P lib64/libcudnn* /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/
    $ sudo chmod a+r /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libcudnn*
```

* Continue with `Caffe` installation

		> cd /path/to/caffe-root
		> make runtest

Run Caffe Examples
---
* **MNIST**
	* Prepare dataset
			> cd /path/to/cafee-root
			> ./data/mnist/get_mnist.sh
			> ./examples/mnist/create_mnist.sh
	* LeNet: the MNIST Classification Model
		The model has been defined in `./examples/mnist/lenet_train_test.prototxt`.
	* Define the MNIST solver
		The solver has been defined in `./examples/mnist/lenet_solver.prototxt`.
	* Training and testing the model
		One can do this after preparing dataset by
			> ./examples/mnist/train_lenet.sh

* **Cifar10**
	* Prepare dataset
			> cd /path/to/cafee-root
			> ./data/cifar10/get_cifar10.sh
			> ./examples/cifar10/create_cifar10.sh
	* Model definition
		The model has been defined in `./examples/cifar10/cifar10_quick_train_test.prototxt`.
	* Define the MNIST solver
		The solver has been defined in `./examples/cifar10/cifar10_quick_solver.prototxt`.
	* Training and testing the model
		One can do this after preparing dataset by
			> ./examples/cifar10/train_quick.sh

To compile the Python and MATLAB wrappers do `sudo make pycaffe` and `sudo make matcaffe` respectively. Be sure to set your MATLAB and Python paths in Makefile.config first!

Install Pycaffe
---

* Install python3.5
        > sudo add-apt-repository ppa:fkrull/deadsnakes
        > sudo apt-get update
        > sudo apt-get install python3.5



